Creates AI Assistant use cases section (#5303)
elastic/security-docs: docs/assistant/use-attack-discovery-ai-assistant-incident-reporting.asciidoc

image::images/attck-disc-esql-query-gen-example.png[An AI Assistant dialogue in which the user asks for a purpose-built {esql} query,90%]

The image above shows an {esql} query generated by AI Assistant in response to a user prompt. Learn more about <<esql-queries-assistant,using AI Assistant for {esql}>>.

At any point in a conversation with AI Assistant, you can add data, narrative summaries, and other information from its responses to {elastic-sec}'s case management system to generate incident reports. 

[discrete]
[[use-case-incident-reporting-create-a-case-using-ai-assistant]]
== Create a case using AI Assistant

From the AI Assistant dialog window, click **Add to case** (image:images/icon-add-to-case.png[Add to case icon,19,16]) next to a message to add the information in that message to a <<cases-overview,case>>. Cases help centralize relevant details in one place for easy sharing with stakeholders.

> If you add a message that contains an Attack discovery to a case, AI Assistant automatically adds the attack summary and all associated alerts to the case. You can also add AI Assistant messages that contain remediation steps and relevant data to the case. 

Reviewer: Not sure if this edit is correct, so feel free to reject it if it's not.

```suggestion
If you add a message that contains a discovery to a case, AI Assistant automatically adds the attack summary and all associated alerts to the case. You can also add AI Assistant messages that contain remediation steps and relevant data to the case. 
```

[[attack-discovery-ai-assistant-incident-reporting]]
= Identify, investigate, and document threats

:frontmatter-description: Elastic AI Assistant can help you write ES|QL queries.
:frontmatter-tags-products: [security]
:frontmatter-tags-content-type: [guide]
:frontmatter-tags-user-goals: [get-started]

Together, <<security-assistant, Elastic AI Assistant>> and <<attack-discovery,Attack discovery>> can help you identify and mitigate threats, investigate incidents, and generate incident reports in various languages so you can monitor and protect your environment. 

In this guide, you'll learn how to:

. <<use-case-incident-reporting-use-attack-discovery-to-identify-threats, Use Attack discovery to identify threats>>
. <<use-case-incident-reporting-use-ai-assistant-to-analyze-a-threat, Use AI Assistant to analyze a threat>>
. <<use-case-incident-reporting-create-a-case-using-ai-assistant,Create a case using AI Assistant>>

> . <<use-case-incident-reporting-translate,Translate incident information to a different human language using AI Assistant>>

Reviewer 2: Seems like these tasks might not _need_ to be done in this specific order, so I'd go with bullets instead.

Reviewer 2: Also holy cow AI Assistant can DO THIS? 😮 Amaze
> Translate incident information to a different human language using AI Assistant

[discrete]
[[use-case-incident-reporting-use-attack-discovery-to-identify-threats]]
== Use Attack discovery to identify threats
Attack discovery can detect a wide range of threats by finding relationships among alerts that may indicate a coordinated attack. This enables you to comprehend how threats move through and affect your systems. Attack discovery generates detailed overviews of potential threats, which can serve as foundations for further analysis. Learn how to <<attack-discovery,get started with Attack discovery>>.

> image::images/attck-disc-11-alerts-disc.png[An Attack discovery card showing an attack with 11 related alerts,90%]

Reviewer 3: Consider blurring sensitive information, like `james-spiteri` and the hostname.

Author: don't think this is necessary since James is so publicly involved with this feature. I see it as a little easter egg for those who've been following his work. Also don't think the demo hostname is really sensitive.

Reviewer 2: >  I see it as a little easter egg for those who've been following his work

I get that, but I'd still double-check to make sure he's OK with being easter-egged. 🍳 

Also the details in the image are VERY tiny, and then the next sentence directly references it and asks the reader to actually try to read the small text. It's a minor thing, so disregard this so if it'd take a lot of time, setup, mocking, etc. to retake.

> In the screenshot above, Attack discovery found connections between eleven alerts, and used them to identify and describe an attack chain.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the example above, Attack discovery found connections between eleven alerts, and used them to identify and describe an attack chain.
```

> After Attack discovery outlines your threat landscape, Elastic AI Assistant can help you quickly analyze a threat in detail. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After Attack discovery outlines your threat landscape, use Elastic AI Assistant to quickly analyze a threat in detail. 
```

[discrete]
[[use-case-incident-reporting-use-ai-assistant-to-analyze-a-threat]]
== Use AI Assistant to analyze a threat

> From a discovery on the Attack discovery page, click **View in AI Assistant** to start a chat that includes the discovery as context. 

Reviewer 2: OK, now I'm seeing how maybe these sections DO go in a certain order, but I still think they could exist just as well as more standalone use cases. In this use case, we could suggest other UIs, workflows, etc. where a user can jump into AI Assistant to start analyzing — the Attack discovery page isn't the only jumping-off point.

> From a discovery on the Attack discovery page, you can click **View in AI Assistant** to start a chat that includes the discovery as context. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
From a discovery on the Attack discovery page, click **View in AI Assistant** to start a chat that includes the discovery as context. 
```

> AI Assistant can quickly compile and present key data and provide suggestions to help you generate an incident report and plan an effective response. You can prompt it to supply relevant data or suggestions with questions like “How can I remediate this threat?” or “What ES|QL query would isolate actions taken by this user?” 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
AI Assistant can quickly compile essential data and provide suggestions to help you generate an incident report and plan an effective response. You can ask it to provide relevant data or answer questions, such as “How can I remediate this threat?” or “What {esql} query would isolate actions taken by this user?” 
```

image::images/attck-disc-esql-query-gen-example.png[An AI Assistant dialogue in which the user asks for a purpose-built {esql} query,90%]

> The screenshot above shows an {esql} query generated by AI Assistant in response to a user prompt. Learn more about <<esql-queries-assistant,using AI Assistant for {esql}>>.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The image above shows an {esql} query generated by AI Assistant in response to a user prompt. Learn more about <<esql-queries-assistant,using AI Assistant for {esql}>>.
```

> At any point in a conversation with AI Assistant, you can add data, narrative summaries, and other information from its responses to {elastic-sec}'s case management system to help quickly generate incident reports. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
At any point in a conversation with AI Assistant, you can add data, narrative summaries, and other information from its responses to {elastic-sec}'s case management system to generate incident reports. 
```

[discrete]
[[use-case-incident-reporting-create-a-case-using-ai-assistant]]
== Create a case using AI Assistant

> From the AI Assistant dialogue, click **Add to case** (image:images/icon-add-to-case.png[Add to case icon,19,16]) next to a message to add the information in that message to a case. If you add a message with an Attack discovery to a case, AI Assistant automatically adds the attack summary and all associated alerts to the case. You can also add AI Assistant messages containing remediation steps and relevant data to the case. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
From the AI Assistant dialog window, click **Add to case** (image:images/icon-add-to-case.png[Add to case icon,19,16]) next to a message to add the information in that message to a case. If you add a message that contains an Attack discovery to a case, AI Assistant automatically adds the attack summary and all associated alerts to the case. You can also add AI Assistant messages that contain remediation steps and relevant data to the case. 
```

> From the AI Assistant dialog window, click **Add to case** (image:images/icon-add-to-case.png[Add to case icon,19,16]) next to a message to add the information in that message to a case. If you add a message that contains an Attack discovery to a case, AI Assistant automatically adds the attack summary and all associated alerts to the case. You can also add AI Assistant messages that contain remediation steps and relevant data to the case. 
> 
> Cases help centralize relevant details in one place for easy sharing with stakeholders. Learn more about <<cases-overview,Cases>>. 

Reviewer 2: The second paragraph felt a little tacked on to me. Maybe:
```suggestion
From the AI Assistant dialog window, click **Add to case** (image:images/icon-add-to-case.png[Add to case icon,19,16]) next to a message to add the information in that message to a <<cases-overview,case>>. Cases help centralize relevant details in one place for easy sharing with stakeholders.

If you add a message that contains an Attack discovery to a case, AI Assistant automatically adds the attack summary and all associated alerts to the case. You can also add AI Assistant messages that contain remediation steps and relevant data to the case. 
```

[discrete]
[[use-case-incident-reporting-translate]]
== Translate incident information to a different human language using AI Assistant

> AI Assistant can translate its findings into other human languages, helping to enable collaboration among global security teams and distributed Security Operations Centers (SOCs), and making it easier to operate within multilingual organizations. 

Reviewer 2: Nit: feels a little redundant (a distributed SOC is a global security team):
```suggestion
AI Assistant can translate its findings into other human languages, helping to enable collaboration among global security teams, and making it easier to operate within multilingual organizations. 
```

> AI Assistant can translate its findings into other human languages, helping to enable collaboration within global security teams and distributed Security Operations Centers (SOCs), and making it easier to operate in multilingual organizations. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
AI Assistant can translate its findings into other human languages, helping to enable collaboration among global security teams and distributed Security Operations Centers (SOCs), and making it easier to operate within multilingual organizations. 
```

After AI Assistant provides information in one language, you can ask it to translate its responses. For example, if it provides remediation steps for an incident, you can instruct it to “Translate these remediation steps into Japanese.” You can then add the translated output to a case. This can help team members receive the same information and insights regardless of their primary language.

> NOTE: In our internal testing, AI Assistant translations preserved the accuracy of the original content. 

Reviewer 2: Hm, I was actually expecting the opposite here: we're usually quite explicit about telling customers to take AI results with a grain of salt (for good reason!). Should we temper this note with the same healthy skepticism toward AI in general?

> In our internal testing, AI Assistant translations preserved the accuracy and utility of the original content. 

Reviewer 3: What do we mean by "utility" here? 
```suggestion
NOTE: In our internal testing, AI Assistant translations preserved the accuracy and utility of the original content. 
```

[discrete]

> == Related documentation

Reviewer 3: I'll let others weigh in on if they think this is necessary. Would be great as a sidebar component in our CSS styling, however :)

Reviewer 2: I commented on the same type of section elsewhere (will link once I save this review).
